Add INP glossary entry and replace FID references (#36851)
mdn/content: files/en-us/glossary/interaction_to_next_paint/index.md

---

> title: Interaction to Next Paint

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Interaction to Next Paint (INP)
```

slug: Glossary/Interaction_to_next_paint
page-type: glossary-definition
---

{{GlossarySidebar}}

> **Interaction to Next Paint** (INP) measures the responsiveness of a website to user interactions (i.e. when they click a link, tap on a button, or use a custom, JavaScript-powered control).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Interaction to Next Paint** (INP) measures the responsiveness of a website to user interactions (for example, when they click a link, tap on a button, or use a custom, JavaScript-powered control).
```

Reviewer 2: We've started moving towards using "for example" instead of "e.g." and "that is" instead of "i.e." because people often get confused about what they mean and use them interchangeably (as this sentence structure proves!), especially people for whom English is not their first language.

> **Interaction to Next Paint** (INP) measures the responsiveness of a website to user interactions (i.e. when they click a link, tap on a button, or use a custom, JavaScript-powered control).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Interaction to Next Paint** (INP) measures the responsiveness of a website to user interactions (i.e., when they click a link, tap on a button, or use a custom, JavaScript-powered control).
```

Reviewer: Resolving based on Chris' suggestion

> It was designed by Google as one of the [Core Web Vital](https://web.dev/articles/vitals) metrics and replaced {{Glossary("first input delay")}} (FID) as a Core Web Vitals in May 2024. There are two key differences between FID and INP, that make INP a better measure of a page's responsiveness:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
INP was designed by Google as one of the [Core Web Vital](https://web.dev/articles/vitals) metrics, replacing {{Glossary("first input delay")}} (FID) in May 2024. There are two key differences between FID and INP that make INP a more reliable measure of a page's responsiveness:
```

> It was designed by Google as one of the [Core Web Vital](https://web.dev/articles/vitals) metrics and replaced {{Glossary("first input delay")}} (FID) as a Core Web Vitals in May 2024. There are two key differences between FID and INP, that make INP a better measure of a page's responsiveness:

Reviewer: "as a Core Web Vitals metric", or we could remove:

```suggestion
It was designed by Google as one of the [Core Web Vital](https://web.dev/articles/vitals) metrics and replaced {{Glossary("first input delay")}} (FID) in May 2024. There are two key differences between FID and INP, that make INP a better measure of a page's responsiveness:
```

Reviewer: I think Chris has suggested almost identical edits, so I'm marking this as resolved.

> - FID measures only the first interaction, while INP considers all interaction

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- FID measures only the first interaction, whereas INP considers all interactions.
```

> - FID only measure the input delay of the interaction, while INP measures for longer until the first paint after the interaction processing starts.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- FID only measures the input delay of the interaction, whereas INP measures a longer delay period — until the first paint after the interaction processing starts.
```

> - FID measures only the first interaction, while INP considers all interaction
> - FID only measure the input delay of the interaction, while INP measures for longer until the first paint after the interaction processing starts.

Reviewer: Is this accurate? Based on https://web.dev/articles/inp

```suggestion
- FID measures only the first user interaction, while INP considers all user interactions on a page.
- FID measures the input delay of the interaction, while INP measurements begin at the input delay, followed by the time it takes to process events, the browser's presentation time, and the time until the browser has painted the next frame.
```

> INP measure the worst length of time (minus some outliers), in milliseconds, between the user interaction on a web page and the next frame presentation after that interaction is processed. Scrolling and zooming are not included in this metric. INP is calculated using the [Event Timing API](/en-US/docs/Web/API/PerformanceEventTiming). Async operations (such as network fetches, or file reads) usually do not delay INP as a paint happens while those are asyncronously handled.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
INP measures the worst length of time (minus some outliers), in milliseconds, between the user interaction on a web page and the next frame presentation after that interaction is processed. Scrolling and zooming are not included in this metric. INP is calculated using the [Event Timing API](/en-US/docs/Web/API/PerformanceEventTiming). Asynchronous operations such as network fetches or file reads usually do not delay INP as painting can occur while such operations are handled.
```

> All eligible interactions throughout the life of the page are considered. For highly interactive pages of 50 or more interactions the 98th percentile is used to exclude some extreme outliers that are not reflective of the overall responsiveness of the page.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
All eligible interactions throughout the page lifetime are considered. For highly interactive pages of 50 or more interactions, the 98th percentile is used to exclude some extreme outliers that are not reflective of overall page responsiveness.
```

> The longer the delay, the worse the user experience. The [Long Animation Frame API](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Performance_API/Long_animation_frame_timing) can help identify causes of high INP.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The longer the delay, the worse the user experience. The [Long Animation Frames API](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Performance_API/Long_animation_frame_timing) can help identify causes of high INP.
```

## See also

> - [INP](https://web.dev/articles/inp) on web.dev (2023)
> - [Optimizing INP](https://web.dev/articles/optimizing-inp) on web.dev (2023)
> - [Interaction to Next Paint is officially a Core Web Vital](https://web.dev/blog/inp-cwv-launch) on web.dev (2024)
> - [PerformanceEventTiming](/en-US/docs/Web/API/PerformanceEventTiming)
> - [Long animation frame timing](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Performance_API/Long_animation_frame_timing)

Reviewer: Minor one to reorder based on internal links first followed by external:

```suggestion
- [Long animation frame timing](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Performance_API/Long_animation_frame_timing)
- [PerformanceEventTiming](/en-US/docs/Web/API/PerformanceEventTiming)
- [INP](https://web.dev/articles/inp) on web.dev (2023)
- [Optimizing INP](https://web.dev/articles/optimizing-inp) on web.dev (2023)
- [Interaction to Next Paint is officially a Core Web Vital](https://web.dev/blog/inp-cwv-launch) on web.dev (2024)
```
